README.md, before:

![](images/thehive-logo.png)


[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/TheHive-Project/TheHive](https://badges.gitter.im/TheHive-Project/TheHive.svg)](https://gitter.im/TheHive-Project/TheHive?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)


[TheHive](https://thehive-project.org/) is a scalable 3-in-1 open source and free Security Incident Response Platform designed to make life easier for SOCs, CSIRTs, CERTs and any information security practitioner dealing with security incidents that need to be investigated and acted upon swiftly. It is the perfect companion for [MISP](http://www.misp-project.org/). You can synchronize it with one or multiple MISP instances to start investigations out of MISP events. You can also export an investigation's results as a MISP event to help your peers and partners detect and react to attacks you've dealt with. Additionally, when TheHive is used in conjunction with [Cortex](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/Cortex/), security analysts and researchers can easily analyze hundred of observables at once using more than 100 analyzers, contain an incident or eradicate malware.

![Current Cases View](images/Current_cases.png)

## Collaborate
Collaboration is at the heart of TheHive. Multiple analysts can work on the same case simultaneously. For example, an analyst may deal with malware analysis while another may work on tracking C2 beaconing activity on proxy logs as soon as IOCs have been added by their coworker. Using TheHive's live stream, everyone can keep an eye on what's happening on the platform, in real time.

## Elaborate
Within TheHive, every investigation corresponds to a case. Cases can be created from scratch or from [MISP](http://www.misp-project.org/) events, SIEM alerts, email reports and any other noteworthy source of security events.

Each case can be broken down into one or more tasks. Instead of adding the same tasks to a given type of case every time one is created, analysts can use TheHive's template engine to create them once and for all. Case templates can also be used to associate metrics to specific case types in order to drive the team's activity, identify the type of investigations that take significant time and seek to automate tedious tasks.

Each task can be assigned to a given analyst. Team members can also take charge of a task without waiting for someone to assign it to them.

Tasks may contain multiple work logs that contributing analysts can use to describe what they are up to, what was the outcome, attach pieces of evidence or noteworthy files and so on. Logs can be written using a rich text editor or Markdown.

## Analyze & Respond
You can add one or thousands of observables to each case you create. You can also create a case out of a [MISP](http://www.misp-project.org/) event. TheHive can be very easily linked to one or several MISP instances and MISP events can be previewed to decide whether they warrant an investigation or not. If an investigation is in order, the analyst can then add the event to an existing case or import it as a new case using a customizable template.

Thanks to [TheHive4py](https://thehive-project.org/#section_thehive4py), TheHive's Python API client, it is possible to send SIEM alerts, phishing and other suspicious emails and other security events to TheHive. They will appear in its `Alerts` panel along with new or updated MISP events, where they can be previewed, imported into cases or ignored.

![The Alerts Pane](images/Alerts_Panel.png)

TheHive has the ability to automatically identify observables that have been already seen in previous cases. Observables can also be associated with a [TLP](https://www.us-cert.gov/tlp) and a [PAP](https://www.misp-project.org/taxonomies.html#_pap) and the source which provided or generated them using tags. The analyst can also easily mark observables as IOCs and isolate those using a search query then export them for searching in a SIEM or other data stores.

Analysts can analyze hundreds of observables in a few clicks by leveraging more than a hundred analyzers of one or several [Cortex](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/Cortex/) instances depending on your OPSEC needs: DomainTools, VirusTotal, PassiveTotal, Joe Sandbox, geolocation, threat feed lookups and so on.

Security analysts with a knack for scripting can easily add their own analyzers to Cortex in order to automate actions that must be performed on observables or IOCs. They can also decide how analyzers behave according to the TLP. For example, a file added as observable can be submitted to VirusTotal if the associated TLP is WHITE or GREEN. If it's AMBER, its hash is computed and submitted to VT but not the file. If it's RED, no VT lookup is done.

Last but not least, analysts can also use responders through Cortex to contain an incident, eradicate malware & so on. For example, they can call a responder to reply to a suspicious email notification from TheHive, block a URL at the proxy level and perform other orchestration tasks.

# Try it
To try TheHive, you can use the [training VM](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/TheHiveDocs/blob/master/training-material.md) or install it by reading the [Installation Guide](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/TheHiveDocs/blob/master/installation/install-guide.md).

# Details

## Documentation
We have made several guides available in the [Documentation repository](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/TheHiveDocs).

## Architecture
TheHive is written in Scala and uses ElasticSearch 5.x for storage. Its REST API is stateless which allows it to be horizontally scalable. The front-end uses AngularJS with Bootstrap.

![architecture](images/thehive-architecture.png)

## Workflow
The following image shows a typical workflow:

![workflow](images/thehive-workflow.png)

## Additional features
### Authentication
TheHive supports several authentication methods:
+ Active Directory
+ LDAP
+ API keys
+ X.509 SSO
+ OAuth 2
+ Local authentication

### Dashboards
TheHive comes with a powerful, highly configurable module that allows you to create meaningful dashboards to drive your activity and support your budget requests.

### Case Merging
Two (or more) cases can be easily merged together if you believe they relate to the same threat or have a significant observable overlap.

### Case and Observable Filtering
You can filter cases and observables very easily to show only the data that is of interest to you.

### MISP and Cortex
TheHive can be configured to import events from one or multiple [MISP](http://www.misp-project.org/) instances using various filters (tag whitelist, tag blacklist, organization blacklist, max attributes per event...). You can also use TheHive to export cases as MISP events to one or several MISP servers. 

[Cortex](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/Cortex/) is the perfect companion for TheHive. Use one or several to analyze observables at scale and respond to incidents.

### Integration with Digital Shadows
TheHive Project provides [DigitalShadows2TH](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/DigitalShadows2TH), a free, open source [Digital Shadows](https://www.digitalshadows.com/) alert feeder for TheHive. You can use it to import Digital Shadows *incidents* and *intel-incidents* as alerts in TheHive, where they can be previewed and transformed into new cases using pre-defined incident response templates or added into existing ones.

### Integration with Zerofox
[Zerofox2TH](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/Zerofox2TH) is a free, open source [ZeroFOX](https://www.zerofox.com/) alert feeder for TheHive, written by TheHive Project. You can use it to feed ZeroFOX alerts into TheHive, where they can be previewed and transformed into new cases using pre-defined incident response templates or added into existing ones.

### Integration with FireEye iSIGHT
[FireEye2TH](https://github.com/LDO-CERT/FireEye2TH) is a free, open source [FireEye iSIGHT](https://www.fireeye.com/) alert feeder for TheHive, written by LDO-CERT. You can use it to feed FireEye iSIGHT alerts into TheHive, where they can be previewed and transformed into new cases using pre-defined incident response templates or added into existing ones.

# License
TheHive is an open source and free software released under the [AGPL](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/TheHive/blob/master/LICENSE) (Affero General Public License). We, TheHive Project, are committed to ensure that TheHive will remain a free and open source project on the long-run.

# Updates
Information, news and updates are regularly posted on [TheHive Project Twitter account](https://twitter.com/thehive_project) and on [the blog](https://blog.thehive-project.org/).

# Contributing
Please see our [Code of conduct](code_of_conduct.md). We welcome your contributions. Please feel free to fork the code, play with it, make some patches and send us pull requests via [issues](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/TheHive/issues).

# Support
Please [open an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/TheHive/issues) if you'd like to report a bug or request a feature. We are also available on [Gitter](https://gitter.im/TheHive-Project/TheHive) to help you out.

If you need to contact the project team, send an email to <support@thehive-project.org>.

**Important Note**:

- If you have problems with [TheHive4py](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/TheHive4py), please [open an issue on its dedicated repository](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/TheHive4py/issues/new).
- If you encounter an issue with Cortex or would like to request a Cortex-related feature, please [open an issue on its dedicated GitHub repository](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/Cortex/issues/new).
- If you have troubles with a Cortex analyzer or would like to request a new one or an improvement to an existing analyzer, please open an issue on the [analyzers' dedicated GitHub repository](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/cortex-analyzers/issues/new).

# Community Discussions
We have set up a Google forum at <https://groups.google.com/a/thehive-project.org/d/forum/users>. To request access, you need a Google account. You may create one [using a Gmail address](https://accounts.google.com/SignUp?hl=en) or [without it](https://accounts.google.com/SignUpWithoutGmail?hl=en).

# Website
<https://thehive-project.org/>

Commit message:

Add Crowdstrike2TH (WIP) and Synapse to the alert feeder list

README.md, after:

![](images/thehive-logo.png)


[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/TheHive-Project/TheHive](https://badges.gitter.im/TheHive-Project/TheHive.svg)](https://gitter.im/TheHive-Project/TheHive?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)


[TheHive](https://thehive-project.org/) is a scalable 3-in-1 open source and free Security Incident Response Platform designed to make life easier for SOCs, CSIRTs, CERTs and any information security practitioner dealing with security incidents that need to be investigated and acted upon swiftly. It is the perfect companion for [MISP](http://www.misp-project.org/). You can synchronize it with one or multiple MISP instances to start investigations out of MISP events. You can also export an investigation's results as a MISP event to help your peers and partners detect and react to attacks you've dealt with. Additionally, when TheHive is used in conjunction with [Cortex](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/Cortex/), security analysts and researchers can easily analyze hundred of observables at once using more than 100 analyzers, contain an incident or eradicate malware.

![Current Cases View](images/Current_cases.png)

## Collaborate
Collaboration is at the heart of TheHive. Multiple analysts can work on the same case simultaneously. For example, an analyst may deal with malware analysis while another may work on tracking C2 beaconing activity on proxy logs as soon as IOCs have been added by their coworker. Using TheHive's live stream, everyone can keep an eye on what's happening on the platform, in real time.

## Elaborate
Within TheHive, every investigation corresponds to a case. Cases can be created from scratch or from [MISP](http://www.misp-project.org/) events, SIEM alerts, email reports and any other noteworthy source of security events.

Each case can be broken down into one or more tasks. Instead of adding the same tasks to a given type of case every time one is created, analysts can use TheHive's template engine to create them once and for all. Case templates can also be used to associate metrics to specific case types in order to drive the team's activity, identify the type of investigations that take significant time and seek to automate tedious tasks.

Each task can be assigned to a given analyst. Team members can also take charge of a task without waiting for someone to assign it to them.

Tasks may contain multiple work logs that contributing analysts can use to describe what they are up to, what was the outcome, attach pieces of evidence or noteworthy files and so on. Logs can be written using a rich text editor or Markdown.

## Analyze & Respond
You can add one or thousands of observables to each case you create. You can also create a case out of a [MISP](http://www.misp-project.org/) event. TheHive can be very easily linked to one or several MISP instances and MISP events can be previewed to decide whether they warrant an investigation or not. If an investigation is in order, the analyst can then add the event to an existing case or import it as a new case using a customizable template.

Thanks to [TheHive4py](https://thehive-project.org/#section_thehive4py), TheHive's Python API client, it is possible to send SIEM alerts, phishing and other suspicious emails and other security events to TheHive. They will appear in its `Alerts` panel along with new or updated MISP events, where they can be previewed, imported into cases or ignored.

![The Alerts Pane](images/Alerts_Panel.png)

TheHive has the ability to automatically identify observables that have been already seen in previous cases. Observables can also be associated with a [TLP](https://www.us-cert.gov/tlp) and a [PAP](https://www.misp-project.org/taxonomies.html#_pap) and the source which provided or generated them using tags. The analyst can also easily mark observables as IOCs and isolate those using a search query then export them for searching in a SIEM or other data stores.

Analysts can analyze hundreds of observables in a few clicks by leveraging more than a hundred analyzers of one or several [Cortex](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/Cortex/) instances depending on your OPSEC needs: DomainTools, VirusTotal, PassiveTotal, Joe Sandbox, geolocation, threat feed lookups and so on.

Security analysts with a knack for scripting can easily add their own analyzers to Cortex in order to automate actions that must be performed on observables or IOCs. They can also decide how analyzers behave according to the TLP. For example, a file added as observable can be submitted to VirusTotal if the associated TLP is WHITE or GREEN. If it's AMBER, its hash is computed and submitted to VT but not the file. If it's RED, no VT lookup is done.

Last but not least, analysts can also use responders through Cortex to contain an incident, eradicate malware & so on. For example, they can call a responder to reply to a suspicious email notification from TheHive, block a URL at the proxy level and perform other orchestration tasks.

# Try it
To try TheHive, you can use the [training VM](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/TheHiveDocs/blob/master/training-material.md) or install it by reading the [Installation Guide](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/TheHiveDocs/blob/master/installation/install-guide.md).

# Details

## Documentation
We have made several guides available in the [Documentation repository](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/TheHiveDocs).

## Architecture
TheHive is written in Scala and uses ElasticSearch 5.x for storage. Its REST API is stateless which allows it to be horizontally scalable. The front-end uses AngularJS with Bootstrap.

![architecture](images/thehive-architecture.png)

## Workflow
The following image shows a typical workflow:

![workflow](images/thehive-workflow.png)

## Additional features
### Authentication
TheHive supports several authentication methods:
+ Active Directory
+ LDAP
+ API keys
+ X.509 SSO
+ OAuth 2
+ Local authentication

### Dashboards
TheHive comes with a powerful, highly configurable module that allows you to create meaningful dashboards to drive your activity and support your budget requests.

### Case Merging
Two (or more) cases can be easily merged together if you believe they relate to the same threat or have a significant observable overlap.

### Case and Observable Filtering
You can filter cases and observables very easily to show only the data that is of interest to you.

### MISP and Cortex
TheHive can be configured to import events from one or multiple [MISP](http://www.misp-project.org/) instances using various filters (tag whitelist, tag blacklist, organization blacklist, max attributes per event...). You can also use TheHive to export cases as MISP events to one or several MISP servers. 

[Cortex](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/Cortex/) is the perfect companion for TheHive. Use one or several to analyze observables at scale and respond to incidents.

### Alert Feeders by TheHive Project

#### DigitalShadows2TH
[DigitalShadows2TH](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/DigitalShadows2TH) is a free, open source [Digital Shadows](https://www.digitalshadows.com/) alert feeder for TheHive. You can use it to import Digital Shadows *incidents* and *intel-incidents* as alerts in TheHive, where they can be previewed and transformed into new cases using pre-defined incident response templates or added into existing ones.

#### Synapse
[Synapse](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/Synapse) is a meta-alert feeder that allows you to centrally feed TheHive from multiple alert sources. It leverages TheHive's API to automate case and alert creation. Case creation from email or alert creation from SIEM event are typical use cases. Currently, Synapse allows you to integrate Exchange, O365 & QRadar.

#### Zerofox2TH
[Zerofox2TH](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/Zerofox2TH) is a free, open source [ZeroFOX](https://www.zerofox.com/) alert feeder for TheHive, written by TheHive Project. You can use it to feed ZeroFOX alerts into TheHive, where they can be previewed and transformed into new cases using pre-defined incident response templates or added into existing ones.

### Alert Feeders from the User Community

### Integration with Crowdstrike Falcon (WIP)
[Crowdstrike2TH](https://github.com/xg5-simon/CrowdStrike2TH) is a [Crowdstrike Falcon](https://www.crowdstrike.com/endpoint-security-products/) alert feeder for TheHive, written by [Simon](https://github.com/xg5-simon). You can use it to feed Crowdstrike alerts into TheHive, where they can be previewed and transformed into new cases using pre-defined incident response templates or added into existing ones.

**Note**: this is a work in progress. Currently, the code licensing is unclear. 

### Integration with FireEye iSIGHT
[FireEye2TH](https://github.com/LDO-CERT/FireEye2TH) is a free, open source [FireEye iSIGHT](https://www.fireeye.com/) alert feeder for TheHive, written by LDO-CERT. You can use it to feed FireEye iSIGHT alerts into TheHive, where they can be previewed and transformed into new cases using pre-defined incident response templates or added into existing ones.

# License
TheHive is an open source and free software released under the [AGPL](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/TheHive/blob/master/LICENSE) (Affero General Public License). We, TheHive Project, are committed to ensure that TheHive will remain a free and open source project on the long-run.

# Updates
Information, news and updates are regularly posted on [TheHive Project Twitter account](https://twitter.com/thehive_project) and on [the blog](https://blog.thehive-project.org/).

# Contributing
Please see our [Code of conduct](code_of_conduct.md). We welcome your contributions. Please feel free to fork the code, play with it, make some patches and send us pull requests via [issues](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/TheHive/issues).

# Support
Please [open an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/TheHive/issues) if you'd like to report a bug or request a feature. We are also available on [Gitter](https://gitter.im/TheHive-Project/TheHive) to help you out.

If you need to contact the project team, send an email to <support@thehive-project.org>.

**Important Note**:

- If you have problems with [TheHive4py](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/TheHive4py), please [open an issue on its dedicated repository](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/TheHive4py/issues/new).
- If you encounter an issue with Cortex or would like to request a Cortex-related feature, please [open an issue on its dedicated GitHub repository](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/Cortex/issues/new).
- If you have troubles with a Cortex analyzer or would like to request a new one or an improvement to an existing analyzer, please open an issue on the [analyzers' dedicated GitHub repository](https://github.com/TheHive-Project/cortex-analyzers/issues/new).

# Community Discussions
We have set up a Google forum at <https://groups.google.com/a/thehive-project.org/d/forum/users>. To request access, you need a Google account. You may create one [using a Gmail address](https://accounts.google.com/SignUp?hl=en) or [without it](https://accounts.google.com/SignUpWithoutGmail?hl=en).

# Website
<https://thehive-project.org/>
