# Getting Started

TheHive exposes REST APIs through JSON over HTTP.

## Request formats

TheHive accepts several parameter formats within a HTTP request. They can be used indifferently. Input data can be:
- a query string
- URL-encoded form
- multi-part
- JSON

Hence, the requests below are equivalent.

### Query String
```
curl -XPOST 'http://127.0.0.1:9000/api/login?user=me&password=secret'
```

### URL-encoded Form
```
curl -XPOST 'http://127.0.0.1:9000/api/login' -d user=me -d password=secret
```

### JSON
```
curl -XPOST http://127.0.0.1:9000/api/login -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{
  "user": "me",
  "password": "secret"
}'
```

### Multi-part
```
curl -XPOST http://127.0.0.1:9000/api/login -F '_json=<-;type=application/json' << _EOF_
{
  "user": "me",
  "password": "secret"
}
_EOF_
```

## Response Format

TheHive outputs JSON data.

## Field Types

 - `string` : textual data (example "malware").
 - `text` : textual data. The difference between `string` and `text` is in the way content can be searched.`string` is searchable as-is whereas `text`,  words (token) are searchable, not the whole content (example "Ten users have received this ransomware").
 - `date` : date and time using ISO format (example: "20161122T104300+2000")
From TheHive 2.10.0, the date use timestamps with milliseconds format. ISO format is still accepted as input but is considered deprecated.
 - `boolean` : true or false
 - `number` : numeric value
 - `metrics` : JSON object that contains only numbers

Field can be prefixed with `multi-` in order to indicate that multiple values can be provided.

## Authentication

Most API calls requires authentication. Credentials can be provided using a session cookie or directly using HTTP basic authentication. (API key is not usable in the current version of TheHive, due to a rethinking of service account **TODO need issue reference**).

Session cookie is suitable for browser authentication, not for a dedicated tool. The easiest solution if you want to write a tool that use TheHive API is to use basic authentication. For example, to list cases, use the following curl command:
```
curl -u mylogin:mypassword http://127.0.0.1:9000/api/cases
```

# TheHive Backend

## Model Definition

### Common Attributes
All entities share the following attributes:
 - `createdBy` (text) : login of the user who create the entity
 - `createdAt` (date) : date and time of the creation
 - `updatedBy` (text) : login of the user who do the last update of the entity
 - `upadtedAt` (date) : date and time of the last update
 - `user` (text) : same value as `createdBy` (this field is deprecated)
This attributes are handled by back-end and can't be directly updated.

### Case

Required attributes:
 - `title` (text) : title of the case
 - `description` (text) : description of the case
 - `severity` (number) : severity of the case (0: not set; 1: low; 2: medium; 3: high) **default=2**
 - `startDate` (date) : date and time of the begin of the case **default=now**
 - `owner` (string) : user to whom the case has been assigned **default=use who create the case**
 - `flag` (boolean) : flag of the case **default=false**
 - `tlp` (number) : [TLP](https://www.us-cert.gov/tlp) (`-1`: `unknown`; `0`: `white`; `1`: `green`; `2: amber`; `3: red`) **default=-1**
 - `status` (caseStatus) : status of the case (*Open*, *Resolved* or *Deleted*) **default=Open**

Optional attributes:
 - `tags` (multi-string) : case tags
 - `resolutionStatus` (caseResolutionStatus) : resolution status of the case (*Indeterminate*, *FalsePositive*, *TruePositive*, *Other* or *Duplicated*)
 - `impactStatus` (caseImpactStatus) : impact status of the case (*NoImpact*, *WithImpact* or *NotApplicable*)
 - `summary` (text) : summary of the case, to be provided when closing a case
 - `endDate` (date) : resolution date
 - `metrics` (metrics) : list of metrics

Attributes generated by the backend:
 - `caseId` (number) : Id of the case (auto-generated)
 - `mergeInto` (string) : ID of the case created by the merge
 - `mergeFrom` (multi-string) :  IDs of the cases that were merged

### Task

Required attributes:
 - `title` (text) : title of the task
 - `status` (taskStatus) : status of the task (*Waiting*, *InProgress*, *Completed* or *Cancel*) **default=Waiting**
 - `flag` (boolean) : flag of the task **default=false**

Optional attributes:
 - `owner` (string) : user who owns the task. This is automatically set to current user when status is set to *InProgress*
 - `description` (text) : task details
 - `startDate` (date) : date of the beginning of the task. This is automatically set when status is set to *Open*
 - `endDate` (date) : date of the end of the task. This is automatically set when status is set to *Completed*

### Log

Required attributes:
 - `message` (text) : content of the Log
 - `startDate` (date) : date of the log submission **default=now**
 - `status` (logStatus) : status of the log (*Ok* or *Deleted*) **default=Ok**

Optional attributes:
 - `attachment` (attachment) : file attached to the log

### Observable
Required attributes:

 - `data` (string) : content of the observable (read only). An observable can't contain data and attachment attributes
 - `attachment` (attachment) : observable file content (read-only). An observable can't contain data and attachment attributes
 - `dataType` (enumeration) : type of the observable (read only)
 - `message` (text) : description of the observable in the context of the case
 - `startDate` (date) : date of the observable creation **default=now**
 - `tlp` (number) : [TLP](https://www.us-cert.gov/tlp) (`-1`: `unknown`; `0`: `white`; `1`: `green`; `2: amber`; `3: red`) **default=2**
 - `ioc` (boolean) : indicates if the observable is an IOC **default=false**
 - `status` (artifactStatus) : status of the observable (*Ok* or *Deleted*) **default=Ok**

Optional attributes:
 - `tags` (multi-string) : observable tags

## Case Manipulation

### Create a Case

A case can be created using the following url :
```
POST     /api/case
```
Required case attributes (cf. models) must be provided.

This call returns attributes of the created case.

#### Examples
Creation of a simple case:
```
curl -XPOST -u myuser:mypassword -H 'Content-Type: application/json' http://127.0.0.1:9000/api/case -d '{
  "title": "My first case",
  "description": "This case have been created by my custom script"
}'
```
It returns:
```
{
  "severity": 3,
  "createdBy": "myuser",
  "createdAt": 1488918582777,
  "caseId": 1,
  "title": "My first case",
  "startDate": 1488918582836,
  "owner": "myuser",
  "status": "Open",
  "description": "This case have been created by my custom script",
  "user": "myuser",
  "tlp": 2,
  "flag": false,
  "id": "AVqqdpY2yQ6w1DNC8aDh",
  "type":"case"
}
```
Creation of another case:
```
curl -XPOST -u myuser:mypassword -H 'Content-Type: application/json' http://127.0.0.1:9000/api/case -d '{
  "title": "My second case",
  "description": "This case have been created by my custom script, its severity is high, tlp is red and it contains tags",
  "severity": 3,
  "tlp": 3,
  "tags": ["automatic", "creation"]
}'
```

## Observable manipulation

### List Observables of a Case
Complete observable list of a case can be retrieve by performing a search:
```
POST     /api/case/artifact/_search
```
Parameters:
 - `query`: `{ "_parent": { "_type": "case", "_query": { "_id": "<<caseId>>" } } }`
 - `range`: `all`

\<\<caseId\>\> must be replaced by case id (not the case number !)

## Task manipulation

### Create a task
The URL used to create a task is:
```
POST /api/case/<<caseId>>/task
```
\<\<caseId\>\> must be replaced by case id (not the case number !)

Required task attributes (cf. models) must be provided.

This call returns attributes of the created task.

#### Examples
Creation of a simple task in case `AVqqdpY2yQ6w1DNC8aDh`:
```
curl -XPOST -u myuser:mypassword -H 'Content-Type: application/json' http://127.0.0.1:9000/api/case/AVqqdpY2yQ6w1DNC8aDh/task -d '{
  "title": "Do something"
}'
```
It returns:
```
{
  "createdAt": 1488918771513,
  "status": "Waiting",
  "createdBy": "myuser",
  "title": "Do something",
  "order": 0,
  "user": "myuser",
  "flag": false,
  "id":"AVqqeXc9yQ6w1DNC8aDj",
  "type":"case_task"
}
```

Creation of another task:
```
curl -XPOST -u myuser:mypassword -H 'Content-Type: application/json' http://127.0.0.1:9000/api/case/AVqqdpY2yQ6w1DNC8aDh/task -d '{
  "title": "Analyze the malware",
  "description": "The malware XXX is analyzed using sandbox ...",
  "owner": "Joe",
  "status": "InProgress"
}'
```

## Log manipulation

### Create a log
The URL used to create a task is:
```
POST /api/case/task/<<taskId>>/log
```
\<\<taskId\>\> must be replaced by task id

Required log attributes (cf. models) must be provided.

This call returns attributes of the created log.

#### Examples
Creation of a simple log in task `AVqqeXc9yQ6w1DNC8aDj`:
```
curl -XPOST -u myuser:mypassword -H 'Content-Type: application/json' http://127.0.0.1:9000/api/case/task/AVqqeXc9yQ6w1DNC8aDj/log -d '{
  "message": "Some message"
}'
```
It returns:
```
{
  "startDate": 1488919949497,
  "createdBy": "admin",
  "createdAt": 1488919949495,
  "user": "myuser",
  "message":"Some message",
  "status": "Ok",
  "id": "AVqqi3C-yQ6w1DNC8aDq",
  "type":"case_task_log"
}
```

If log contain attachment, request must be in multipart format:
```
curl -XPOST -u myuser:mypassword http://127.0.0.1:9000/api/case/AVqqdpY2yQ6w1DNC8aDh/task -F '_json={"message": "Screenshot of fake site"};type=application/json' -F 'attachment=@screenshot1.png;type=image/png'
```
It returns:
```
{
  "createdBy": "myuser",
  "message": "Screenshot of fake site",
  "createdAt": 1488920587391,
  "startDate": 1488920587394,
  "user": "myuser",
  "status": "Ok",
  "attachment": {
    "name": "screenshot1.png",
    "hashes": [
      "086541e99743c6752f5fd4931e256e6e8d5fc7afe47488fb9e0530c390d0ca65",
      "8b81e038ae0809488f20b5ec7dc91e488ef601e2",
      "c5883708f42a00c3ab1fba5bbb65786c"
    ],
    "size": 15296,
    "contentType": "image/png",
    "id": "086541e99743c6752f5fd4931e256e6e8d5fc7afe47488fb9e0530c390d0ca65"
  },
  "id": "AVqqlSy0yQ6w1DNC8aDx",
  "type": "case_task_log"
}
```
